overviews/3 Fifteen/overview.md, before:

# Module 3: Fifteen

In this module, you'll learn about arrays and about algorithms that you might implement in C. Searching and sorting algorithms will be part of many programs that you write!


## Help

For information on (or help with) this module:

1. Attend your mentor's section meeting.

1. Use `help50`, `eprintf` and `debug50` as needed.

1. Ask questions during office hours using the "Ask" tool on this website.

1. Visit (or e-mail) the course's heads.
{: start="0"}


## Grading

As soon as you have submitted working solutions for all problems below, your mentor will assess your programs, assign a grade for "quality", and provide you with some written feedback. This week, your programs will be primarily graded on:

- [Dead code](/quality/dead-code)
- [Duplicated effort](/quality/duplicated-effort)
- [Scope](/quality/scope)

And we'll also take these into account from previous weeks: [comments](/quality/comments), [naming](/quality/naming), [indentation](/quality/indentation), [whitespace](/quality/whitespace), [duplication](/quality/duplication), [nesting](/quality/nesting), [magic numbers](/quality/magic-numbers), and [choosing loops](/quality/loops).

## What to Do

#### 1. Preparation

Watch the lecture on [Algorithms](/lectures/algorithms)

#### 2. Find

Implement either of:

- [Find](/problems/find-less), for those less comfortable

- [Find](/problems/find-more), for those more comfortable

#### 3. Fifteen

Implement [Fifteen](/problems/fifteen)

#### 4. Exercises

Study and take the test:

- [Arrays](/exercises/arrays)

- [Loops](/exercises/loops)

#### 5. Submit

You can submit your solutions on the problem pages linked above. Before submitting, keep in mind the course's policy on [academic honesty](/syllabus#samenwerken-fraude-en-plagiaat) (like plagiarism).


## Reference

- [Algorithms](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ktWL3nN38ZA)
- [Linear search](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TwsgCHYmbbA)
- [Binary search](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T98PIp4omUA)
- [Selection sort](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3hH8kTHFw2A)
- [Bubble sort](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RT-hUXUWQ2I)
- [Insertion sort](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kU9M51eKSX8)
- [Merge sort](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yF3hMKmCk1A)
- [Computational complexity](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YoZPTyGL2IQ)

Commit message:

updated grading, overviews and problem pages for fifteen more and less

overviews/3 Fifteen/overview.md, after:

# Module 3: Fifteen

In this module, you'll learn about arrays and about algorithms that you might implement in C. Searching and sorting algorithms will be part of many programs that you write!


## Help

For information on (or help with) this module:

1. Attend your mentor's section meeting.

1. Use `help50`, `eprintf` and `debug50` as needed.

1. Ask questions during office hours using the "Ask" tool on this website.

1. Visit (or e-mail) the course's heads.
{: start="0"}


## Grading

As soon as you have submitted working solutions for all problems below, your mentor will assess your programs, assign a grade for "quality", and provide you with some written feedback. This week, your programs will be primarily graded on:

- [Dead code](/quality/dead-code)
- [Duplicated effort](/quality/duplicated-effort)
- [Scope](/quality/scope)

And we'll also take these into account from previous weeks: [comments](/quality/comments), [naming](/quality/naming), [indentation](/quality/indentation), [whitespace](/quality/whitespace), [duplication](/quality/duplication), [nesting](/quality/nesting), [magic numbers](/quality/magic-numbers), and [choosing loops](/quality/loops).

## What to Do

#### 1. Preparation

Watch the lecture on [Algorithms](/lectures/algorithms)

#### 2. Find

Implement either of:

- [Find](/problems/find-less), for those less comfortable

- [Find](/problems/find-more), for those more comfortable

#### 3. Fifteen

Implement either of:

- [Fifteen](/problems/fifteen), for those less comfortable

- [Find](/problems/find-more), for those more comfortable

#### 4. Exercises

Study and take the test:

- [Arrays](/exercises/arrays)

- [Loops](/exercises/loops)

#### 5. Submit

You can submit your solutions on the problem pages linked above. Before submitting, keep in mind the course's policy on [academic honesty](/syllabus#samenwerken-fraude-en-plagiaat) (like plagiarism).


## Reference

- [Algorithms](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ktWL3nN38ZA)
- [Linear search](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TwsgCHYmbbA)
- [Binary search](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T98PIp4omUA)
- [Selection sort](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3hH8kTHFw2A)
- [Bubble sort](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RT-hUXUWQ2I)
- [Insertion sort](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kU9M51eKSX8)
- [Merge sort](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yF3hMKmCk1A)
- [Computational complexity](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YoZPTyGL2IQ)
