problems/cs50/scrabble/index.md, before:

# Lab: Scrabble

> You are welcome to collaborate with one or two classmates on this lab, though it is expected that every student in any such group contribute equally to the lab.

Determine which of two Scrabble words is worth more.

    $ ./scrabble
    Player 1: COMPUTER
    Player 2: science
    Player 1 wins!


## Background

In the game of [Scrabble](https://scrabble.hasbro.com/en-us/rules), players create words to score points, and the number of points is the sum of the point values of each letter in the word.

| A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q  | R | S | T | U | V | W | X | Y | Z  |
| - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | -- | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | -- |
| 1 | 3 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 4 | 2 | 4 | 1 | 8 | 5 | 1 | 3 | 1 | 1 | 3 | 10 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 4 | 4 | 8 | 4 | 10 |

For example, if we wanted to score the word `Code`, we would note that in general Scrabble rules, the `C` is worth `3` points, the `o` is worth `1` point, the `d` is worth `2` points, and the `e` is worth `1` point. Summing these, we get that `Code` is worth `3 + 1 + 2 + 1 = 7` points.


## Getting Started

*   Copy the "distribution code" (i.e., starter code) from [cdn.cs50.net/2020/fall/labs/2/scrabble.c](https://cdn.cs50.net/2020/fall/labs/2/scrabble.c) into a new file in your IDE called `scrabble.c`.

    *   You can also download the distribution code by running the command `wget https://cdn.cs50.net/2020/fall/labs/2/scrabble.c` in CS50 IDE.


## Implementation Details

Complete the implementation of `scrabble.c`, such that it determines the winner of a short scrabble-like game, where two players each enter their word, and the higher scoring player wins.

*   Notice that we've stored the point values of each letter of the alphabet in an integer array named `POINTS`.

    *   For example, `A` or `a` is worth 1 point (represented by `POINTS[0]`), `B` or `b` is worth 3 points (represented by `POINTS[1]`), etc.

*   Notice that we've created a prototype for a helper function called `compute_score()` that takes a string as input and returns an `int`. Whenever we would like to assign point values to a particular word, we can call this function. Note that this prototype is required for C to know that `compute_score()` exists later in the program.

*   In `main()`, the program prompts the two players for their words using the `get_string()` function. These values are stored inside variables named `word1` and `word2`.

*   In `compute_score()`, your program should compute, using the `POINTS` array, and return the score for the string argument. Characters that are not letters should be given zero points, and uppercase and lowercase letters should be given the same point values.

    *   For example, `!` is worth `0` points while `A` and `a` are both worth `1` point.

    *   Though Scrabble rules normally require that a word be in the dictionary, no need to check for that in this problem!

*   In `main()`, your program should print, depending on the players' scores, `Player 1 wins!`, `Player 2 wins!`, or `Tie!`.


### Walkthrough

![Open in CS50 Video Player](https://video.cs50.io/RtjxxxlN1gc)


### Hints

*   You may find the functions `isupper()` and `islower()` to be helpful to you. These functions take in a character as the argument and return a boolean.

*   To find the value at the `n`th index of an array called `arr`, we can write `arr[n]`. We can apply this to strings as well, as strings are arrays of characters.

*   Recall that computers represent characters using [ASCII](http://asciitable.com/), a standard that represents each character as a number.


### How to Test Your Code

Your program should behave per the examples below.

    $ ./scrabble
    Player 1: Question?
    Player 2: Question!
    Tie!

    $ ./scrabble
    Player 1: Oh,
    Player 2: hai!
    Player 2 wins!

    $ ./scrabble
    Player 1: COMPUTER
    Player 2: science
    Player 1 wins!

    $ ./scrabble
    Player 1: Scrabble
    Player 2: wiNNeR
    Player 1 wins!

Not sure how to solve?

![Open in CS50 Video Player](https://video.cs50.io/USiLkXuXJEg)

Execute the below to evaluate the correctness of your code using `check50`. But be sure to compile and test it yourself as well!

    check50 cs50/labs/2021/x/scrabble

Execute the below to evaluate the style of your code using `style50`.

    style50 scrabble.c


## How to Submit

Commit message:

git subrepo pull problems/cs50
subrepo:
  subdir:   "problems/cs50"
  merged:   "a0e8204"
upstream:
  origin:   "https://github.com/minprog/cs50x.git"
  branch:   "2020"
  commit:   "a0e8204"
git-subrepo:
  version:  "0.4.3"
  origin:   "???"
  commit:   "???"

problems/cs50/scrabble/index.md, after:

# Scrabble

> Bij deze opdracht is het helemaal prima om samen te werken met één of twee medestudenten. Zorg dat je gezamenlijk op één scherm kunt kijken en echt samen het probleem probeert op te lossen. Heeft iemand een goed idee, dan moet die zorgen dat de anderen het ook begrijpen. De bedoeling is dat alle samenwerkers evenveel hebben bijgedragen aan de opdracht. Iedereen levert uiteindelijk een eigen versie in.

Determine which of two Scrabble words is worth more.

    $ ./scrabble
    Player 1: COMPUTER
    Player 2: science
    Player 1 wins!


## Background

In the game of [Scrabble](https://scrabble.hasbro.com/en-us/rules), players create words to score points, and the number of points is the sum of the point values of each letter in the word.

| A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q  | R | S | T | U | V | W | X | Y | Z  |
| - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | -- | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | -- |
| 1 | 3 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 4 | 2 | 4 | 1 | 8 | 5 | 1 | 3 | 1 | 1 | 3 | 10 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 4 | 4 | 8 | 4 | 10 |

For example, if we wanted to score the word `Code`, we would note that in general Scrabble rules, the `C` is worth `3` points, the `o` is worth `1` point, the `d` is worth `2` points, and the `e` is worth `1` point. Summing these, we get that `Code` is worth `3 + 1 + 2 + 1 = 7` points.


## Getting Started

Copy the "distribution code" (i.e., starter code) from [https://github.com/minprog/cs50x/raw/2020/scrabble/scrabble.c](https://github.com/minprog/cs50x/raw/2020/scrabble/scrabble.c) into a new file in your IDE called `scrabble.c`.

You can also download the distribution code by running the command `wget https://github.com/minprog/cs50x/raw/2020/scrabble/scrabble.c` in CS50 IDE.


## Implementation Details

Complete the implementation of `scrabble.c`, such that it determines the winner of a short scrabble-like game, where two players each enter their word, and the higher scoring player wins.

*   Notice that we've stored the point values of each letter of the alphabet in an integer array named `POINTS`.

    *   For example, `A` or `a` is worth 1 point (represented by `POINTS[0]`), `B` or `b` is worth 3 points (represented by `POINTS[1]`), etc.

*   Notice that we've created a prototype for a helper function called `compute_score()` that takes a string as input and returns an `int`. Whenever we would like to assign point values to a particular word, we can call this function. Note that this prototype is required for C to know that `compute_score()` exists later in the program.

*   In `main()`, the program prompts the two players for their words using the `get_string()` function. These values are stored inside variables named `word1` and `word2`.

*   In `compute_score()`, your program should compute, using the `POINTS` array, and return the score for the string argument. Characters that are not letters should be given zero points, and uppercase and lowercase letters should be given the same point values.

    *   For example, `!` is worth `0` points while `A` and `a` are both worth `1` point.

    *   Though Scrabble rules normally require that a word be in the dictionary, no need to check for that in this problem!

*   In `main()`, your program should print, depending on the players' scores, `Player 1 wins!`, `Player 2 wins!`, or `Tie!`.


### Walkthrough

<div markdown="1" class="extend">
[![](walkthrough.jpg)](https://video.cs50.io/RtjxxxlN1gc)
</div>

[Open the problem walkthrough in the CS50 video player](https://video.cs50.io/RtjxxxlN1gc)


### Hints

*   You may find the functions `isupper()` and `islower()` to be helpful to you. These functions take in a character as the argument and return a boolean.

*   To find the value at the `n`th index of an array called `arr`, we can write `arr[n]`. We can apply this to strings as well, as strings are arrays of characters.

*   Recall that computers represent characters using [ASCII](http://asciitable.com/), a standard that represents each character as a number.


### How to Test Your Code

Your program should behave per the examples below.

    $ ./scrabble
    Player 1: Question?
    Player 2: Question!
    Tie!

    $ ./scrabble
    Player 1: Oh,
    Player 2: hai!
    Player 2 wins!

    $ ./scrabble
    Player 1: COMPUTER
    Player 2: science
    Player 1 wins!

    $ ./scrabble
    Player 1: Scrabble
    Player 2: wiNNeR
    Player 1 wins!

<details markdown="1"><summary markdown="span">Not sure how to solve?</summary>

<div markdown="1" class="extend">
[![](solving.jpg)](https://video.cs50.io/USiLkXuXJEg)
</div>

[Open the solution walkthrough in the CS50 video player](https://video.cs50.io/USiLkXuXJEg)
</details>

Execute the below to evaluate the correctness of your code using `check50`. But be sure to compile and test it yourself as well!

    check50 -l minprog/cs50x/2020/scrabble

Execute the below to evaluate the style of your code using `style50`.

    style50 scrabble.c


## How to submit

As soon as you're done, submit your `scrabble.c` implementation, below! 

1. Toward CS50 IDE's top-left corner, within its "file browser" (not within a terminal window), control-click or right-click your `scrabble.c` file (that's within your `problems/scrabble` directory) and then select **Download**. You should find that your browser has downloaded `scrabble.c`.

2. Make sure you are signed in to **this** website!

3. Type the names of students that you've worked with on this problem: <input type="text" required>

4. In the form below, choose the file that you just downloaded.

Your program will then again be checked using `check50` and the result will be recorded on this website. Should the check fail unexpectedly, be sure to try if `check50` is still satisfied when you run it in your IDE's Terminal.
